docs(brave): add Brave Search integration tile and logo (#474)
deepset-ai/haystack-integrations: integrations/brave.md

---
layout: integration
name: Brave Search
description: Search the web using the Brave Search API with Haystack
authors:
    - name: deepset
      socials:
        github: deepset-ai
        twitter: deepset_ai
        linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/deepset-ai/
pypi: https://pypi.org/project/brave-search-haystack
repo: https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-core-integrations
type: Search & Extraction
report_issue: https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-core-integrations/issues
logo: /logos/brave.png
version: Haystack 2.0
toc: true
---

### Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [BraveWebSearch](#bravewebsearch)
- [License](#license)

## Overview

> [Brave Search](https://brave.com/search/api/) is an independent search engine with its own web index. Unlike most search APIs, it does not rely on Google or Bing, making it a great choice for privacy-conscious RAG pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Brave Search](https://brave.com/search/api/) is an independent search engine with its own web index. Unlike most search APIs, it does not rely on Google or Bing, making it a great choice for privacy-conscious applications.
```

You need a Brave Search API key to use this integration. You can get one at [brave.com/search/api](https://brave.com/search/api/).

## Installation

```bash
pip install brave-search-haystack
```

## Usage

### BraveWebSearch

`BraveWebSearch` queries the Brave Search API and returns results as Haystack `Document` objects containing the content snippets and metadata (title, URL). Source URLs are also returned separately.

#### Basic Example

```python
from haystack_integrations.components.websearch.brave import BraveWebSearch

web_search = BraveWebSearch(top_k=5)

result = web_search.run(query="What is Haystack by deepset?")
documents = result["documents"]
links = result["links"]
```

By default, the component reads the API key from the `BRAVE_API_KEY` environment variable. You can also pass it explicitly:

```python
from haystack.utils import Secret
from haystack_integrations.components.websearch.brave import BraveWebSearch

web_search = BraveWebSearch(
    api_key=Secret.from_token("your-api-key"),
    top_k=5,
    country="US",
    search_lang="en",
)

> ```

Reviewer: We dont need this section so we can remove it
```suggestion
```
